Will technology eliminate the need for animal testing in drug development?

Imagine yourself as a being who can speak but no one can comprehend you. You are kept in captivity, in a place where you can hardly breathe. You are finally selected and taken out of that place, it is a happy moment for you. You can finally have your freedom but sadly instead of being free, you are prodded by rods and fed toxic substances against your will. The only thing you can do is scream in vain. Your voice is heard by everyone but it gets lost in the noise of scientific advancement. You writhe in pain as the substances take effect on your body, the pain slowly creeps into your body and you slowly succumb to it, never to wake up again.  
Since the time of Aristotle, animals have been subjected to various inhumane experiments for the sake of knowledge. These experiments though unethical were very necessary for the advancement of science. Animal testing has become an important part of experimenting on living organisms to ensure that a product is safe for humans to consume. The lab animals are generally subjected to high levels of toxicity while being kept in isolation due to which they have to suffer a lot of stress and discomfort. Animal testing has a large number of drawbacks:
All of these things make us question ourselves. Is it even worth it? Is it possible to stop this cruelty without hampering our growth?
With the advancement in science, it can be made possible that we don’t have to use animals ever again.  
These bio-printed models can also be used by the researchers to conduct experiments on them without using animals for it. A French company is working on a bio-printed liver model to test liver toxicity without having to use animals at all. This is a breakthrough in the field of bio-technology as it can bring down animal experimentation by a large percentage.   
Organ-on-a-chip method – It is a fairly new technology which consists of growing cells inside chips where they imitate the structure and behavior of human organs. Researchers can test drugs on these chips and it is far cheaper and humane than testing on animals. For example, UK Company CN Bio has come with a system which consists of 10 organs on a single chip and they have tissues ranging from the liver to the brain.Micro dosing: Humans can participate in these experiments in which they are injected with small one time doses and are constantly monitored under imaging techniques to gather information on the changes happening in the body. These tests can replace certain tests on animals and help in removing drug compounds that don’t have the desired effect on the human body. For example, COVID-19 tests were carried on human volunteers in which they were given small doses of the vaccine and kept under constant surveillance. This helped the researchers in removing the drugs that were not having the desired effect on the human body and thus they were also able to remove animal testing as one of the processes.
These alternatives can help in bringing down animal experimentation to a large extent. If science can progress without harming animals then we should go for it rather than putting them through excruciating pain. We must protect the animals as much as we can or else we would soon be living in a world without them. 
